---
layout: overview
title:  "Services Provided by the Layers"
date:   2015-10-26 15:59:09
category: "overview"
mode: "none"
---

**1. Annotated Versioned Linked Content Graph**: Initially unstructured entities (and/or files) can be gradually structured by adding new attributes or links to other entities. 
Furthermore, SocioCortex keeps track of all changes of the entities, which allows users to observe how the entities evolved over time. 

**2. Multiple Dynamic Schemata**: This layer introduces concepts to incrementally design data models by defining types, attributes, and integrity constraints. 
Those elements impose a schema to the underlying entities, and the system supports the user in keeping those entities consistent with respect to the defined schema. 
Together with the first layer, it implements the Hybrid Wiki concept.

**3. Role-Based & Discretionary Access Control**: This layer cares about user integration and management as well as authentication and authorization. 
Thereby roles and responsibilites can be defined at schema as well as at instance level.

**4. Advanced Search and Indexing**: SocioCortex integrates proven and powerful technologies for faceted full-text search including queries over structured linked data.

**5. Higher-Order Functional Language**: SocioCortex provides a trongly-typed and model-based expression language ([MxL](https://wwwmatthes.in.tum.de/pages/xfokvh3melhh/Re14b-Type-Safety-in-EA-Model-Analysis)) as a query language. 
MxL is a functional and sequence-oriented language and supports the most common query and arithmetic operators, but also more sophisticated functions (e.g., statistical functions and graph operations). 
Therefore MxL can be used for defining queries, views, data transformations, data analytics, integrity rules, and temporal reasoning.

**6. Task & Process Integration**: SocioCortex also implements a lightweight and data-oriented approach to process management in order to support adaptive knowledge-intensive processes. 
More information can be found [here](https://wwwmatthes.in.tum.de/pages/ectby2zxvydw/Darwin-Empowering-Users-to-Collaboratively-Structure-Knowledge-Intensive-Processes).

**7. Subscriptions & Events**: Users or client applications of SocioCortex can watch entities and collections of entities of interest and thus receive change notifications automatically.
